---
layout: post
title: Automating Mill Test Reports
date: 2024-08-28 11:59:00-0400
description: Understanding, and automating mill test reports with Grooper. 
tags: grooper 
categories: work
giscus_comments: true
thumbnail: assets/img/posts/mtr/thumb.jpg
related_posts: true
toc:
  beginning: true
---

## What is a Mill Test Report

A mill test report (MTR) often also called a certified mill test report, certified material test report, mill test certificate (MTC), inspection certificate, or certificate of test, 
is a quality assurance document used in the metals industry, that certifies the material's chemical and physical properties, and states that the product complies with international standards such as ASTM, ASME, ISO, etc.

A mill test report is typically generated by the mill that created the material and is done by performing a variety of mechanical stresses/breaks, and mass spectrometry. 
The report will show the elemental weights as carbon, phosphorus, silicon, etc, and the results of various mechanical tests. The material is tracked through unique identifiers such as its Heat ID or some Item/product ID.
to the front matter of the post. The table of contents will be automatically generated from the headings in the post.

**example**

<div>
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/posts/mtr/mtr-example.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
</div>


## Use case

Whether a business is manufacturing, redistributing, or making parts from metals, it becomes incumbent upon that business to certify or re-certify the Material Test Report. 

When a customer receives this document, usually as part of their receiving packet, they must validate that the data contained from the mill or third party is accurate and must re-certify the MTR. 
This is done for a large variety of reasons including:


- Ensure that the material doesn't fail structurally.
- Proof to secure bids or contracts.
- Early problem detection.
- Negotiate pricing on un-compliant metal.
- Prevent liability or litigation in the event of material failure.

This use case is largely motivated by loss avoidance and government regulation, but the process manufacturers or mills are slow and at risk of error. 
The recertification of an MTR is typically performed by a knowledge worker, metallurgist, or material engineer; often this process is done manually, by locating the material standard, designation, 
type on the MTR, and the reference document published by the international body. 

For instance, the following MTR has the following description. 

<div>
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/posts/mtr/mtr-example-zoom.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
</div>

From this we know that the standard is ASTM, the designation is A 572, the grade is 65 [450], the type is 3, and the year is 2013. You can learn about how this breakdown occurs in the Handbook of World Steel Standards, on page 18. 

The worker then refers to the documentation for the standard, the standard must be purchased again from the international body i.e. ASTM every time there is a new revision, usually 3 years. 
Clients often prefer to certify to the latest year they have, and not the year found on the document. 

Here is a copy of the ASTM A572-21, that would allow a worker to determine if this MTR is accurate. Page 2 shows us the Chemical Requirements that could be used to validate the chemistry 

<div>
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/posts/mtr/astm-572-chem.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
</div>
